- [Instructor] For our last exercise, we're gonna
show what is probably considered the hallmark
feature of a real-time chat app.
We wanna make sure that the user interface
gives some type of visual indicator or cue
whenever another user is typing.
We're gonna show what's involved in setting up
that JavaScript code so that users can get
that visual cue that they want.
Let's look at some JavaScript for that now.
Again for this exercise, we're still
in the src/main/resources tree,
in the static subdirectory, and I'm gonna open
the app.js file.
And in my editor, I'm gonna maximize so that we
have more space and I'm gonna walk through
what we have to do.
Just like every other update that has to happen,
we need to subscribe to a topic for those updates.
So I've already gotten some code started here.
On our client, we're gonna subscribe,
and I have to type in, just as before, a topic name.
So we've already set up these topics server-side,
so this name should look pretty familiar.
I have one called guestupdates already in place,
and we have a showTyping function
that's implementing what our callback behavior should be.
So let's scroll down and look at that function now.
Right now, the implementation for showTyping
is pretty simplistic.
I'm sure you could do way more with this,
but all it's doing right now is simply
manipulating the HTML, adding a table row
with a message that simply states, "Someone is typing."
I'm sure you could challenge yourself to figure
out how to get their actual name into this message.
But let's scroll down and let me show you one more thing.
The way that the user is typing indicator
happens, it's just looking at keystrokes,
so there's a JavaScript event happening, keyup,
and we're looking for that event, and when
that event happens on our client, we're gonna
send a message to our queue.
Now again, for here we have to enter the root
URI that our controller is mapped to.
So in this particular case, this would be /app/guestupdate.
And what we're doing is we're sending in
a message that you can then challenge yourself
to do something more useful with that message later.
But let's stop here, and let's look at this in a browser.
So again, I'm mimicking two users
in a conversation, so I have two browser windows open.
In one window, I'm gonna join as Shonna.
In another window, I'm gonna join as Susan.
And now, let's see what happens if Shonna
starts typing a message to Susan.
You see, our indicator shows up on the screen
instantly, "Someone is typing."
So let me finish my message to Susan,
and just for completeness, let's have
Susan respond, because Susan's not rude.
"Hey to you too, Shonna."
And look, as Susan is typing, we get that visual cue.
Shonna knows that Susan is typing a response.
And that's a complete experience
for a chat application, sending messages
and giving that visual indicator that people
have become accustomed to whenever someone
starts typing a response back.
A quick review.
We can now tell when someone is typing a response
in our chat app before they send it.
What we've done here in this exercise is we've
laid the groundwork for other visual cue work
that you may want to implement
as you mature this application.